[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I got to know those
celebrities who had a social
conscience, who had an
environmental conscience,
who wanted to see their
influence used to help make
the world a more
beautiful place.
Not all celebrities
are like that.
A lot of them aren't.
But I got to know
the ones who were.
I got to know Sidney Poitier.
He came to an event
that I was doing.
Susan Sarandon.
There were many
people in Hollywood
that I got the
pleasure of meeting
and got to interact with.
One of the persons that--
another person that meant
a lot to me was Paul McCartney.
Now, Paul is still with us.
And I love Paul.
And I got to spend time with
him and his then wife, Linda.
And they were very, very
good to me and to our causes.
And he's a beautiful
man, and he really cares.
Linda turned him
into a vegetarian
and virtually a vegan.
And at first, he was
a little resistant.
But then he thrived with it.
He got to be 64, and has he had
written about, and much older.
Still doing concerts
all over the world.
Still four-hour concerts in city
after city after city in his
late 70s.
And he has that energy to do it.
And partly, it's because
of the way he eats.
And he's a very beautiful guy.
I got the pleasure of
meeting these people,
these kinds of people.
I also got the
pleasure of meeting
a lot of ordinary
people, normal people.
In other words, they're
not household names,
but they're just as beautiful
souls, just as meaningful lives.
We have a tendency
in our culture
to think of celebrities
as more important.
And it's true.
They have influence.
And if they choose to use that
influence for the greater good,
then that can make a
greater difference.
But really, most
of the folks I met
were just everyday people who
were changing their lives,
wanting to live lives
that were healthier,
that were more loving, more
compassionate, more caring,
wanting their influence on the
world to be a positive one,
wanting to align their food
choices with their heart,
wanting to address
some of the ills, some
of the suffering in the
world that is needless and is
preventable and in their lives,
and were joining together
in local EarthSave groups and
joining together in other ways
to be part of this awakening
that was taking place.
My mother had a--
a painting teacher.
She and a couple of her friends,
her very wealthy friends,
would bring this
gentleman from France
to teach them
painting for a week.
And they'd pay him
a lot of money.
I don't remember his name.
But he was a very
prestigious painter.
And he brought his
wife with him one time.
And he said, she's going to
make the meals for the week
because we've changed
the way we eat.
And we want to
share it with you.
And they had become plant based
because they had read "Diet
for a New America."
And they had brought copies for
everyone, including my mother,
not knowing, again, that she
was the mother of the author
of this book that they loved.
So they pass out
copies of my book
to all of my mother
and her friends.
Now, all of her
friends know as soon
as they see the book that that's
my mother's son and he's persona
non grata in her life.
And yet these people with
just love in their hearts
wanted to share what
they've learned.
They're not pushing it on them.
They're just, in case
you're interested
and why we eat this
way, you'll love it.
It's going to be healthy.
And my mother had to
just deal with that.
My mom was pretty resistant.
She and I had had a
conversation once earlier,
where I said some
things that I believe
about health and food
and the impact of what
we eat on our well-being.
She said there wasn't
any connection.
And you could eat whatever
you wanted and those things.
It's just all your
genes, she said,
how your health would develop.
And at one point,
she said something.
She said, well, but
we'll see, won't we,
because you're eating
the way you are.
And we'll see if you have any
different life as a result.
Well, my mom, in her early
80s, developed-- late 70s,
developed Alzheimer's disease.
And she also had
macular degeneration.
So she went blind.
She lost her memory.
She eventually went deaf.
She became incontinent
and immobile
and continued to live on in this
state for a number of years.
Her dementia was severe.
It eventually killed her.
She was not capable of
recognizing what was happening.
She didn't know who I was
anymore when I was there.
It was very sad.
And I would sometimes
think, well,
you said once, we'll
see as we get older.
I'm seeing.
She's blind.
She doesn't remember anything.
Her cognitive capacities
are destroyed.
So she isn't seeing.
But I am.
And it does matter.
And I took no pleasure in,
look, I'm right; you're wrong.
It was just a tragedy.
And it also was
fuel for me to do
the work I do because
I don't want anybody
to have to have their
later years be like that.
And I know that my
mother ate the way
she did because she was
obstinate and wouldn't change
and also because
that's all she knew.
That's what she had
learned at some point.
And she hung on to that.
And she lived by it.
And she died by it.
And it was sad for me.
It was sad for
anybody that knew her
to see her in that state
for quite a few years.
And it was also a story that,
though full of grief and loss,
had a moral to it
for me, about what
we eat, how we live does matter,
does have an impact on how we
will age and our mental
faculties as we age
and our physical
well-being as we age.
And young people
often don't know that.
They think they'll live forever.
They think they're invulnerable.
They think they can eat
anything and they'll be fine.
And maybe that's
true for a while.
But the consequences develop.
And over time, they
develop even more.
And right now, young
people are making choices
and building the habits that
will carry through their lives.
And if those habits
are healthy ones,
if those habits are
compassionate ones,
life-affirming ones,
they're going to have one
type of outcome in their life.
So I'm thinking that young
people, if they're wise,
choose their habits wisely,
choose the habits that
will be fulfilling to them, that
they'll be glad they chose when
they get a bit older.
I don't want anyone to have to
go through what my mother did.
Sometimes people will say to me
that somebody in their family
isn't listening and
is eating poorly,
and their health
is deteriorating.
And they want to
reach that person
because they love that person.
They want to help that person.
But the person
won't listen, just
wants to make the choices
they want to make.
And their health is
degrading as a consequence,
sometimes quite seriously.
And I don't know.
Some people will just eat
their way into their graves,
make choices that provide
maybe short-term pleasure
or gratification or just
some kind of solace to them
but lead to destruction, lead
to death, lead to disease.
We're all going to
die at some point.
That's for sure.
I want us to have a
high quality of life
for as many years as possible.
I have a vision of
aging that isn't
the same as the normal
thing in our culture,
where people degenerate.
They have Alzheimer's.
They're on so many meds.
And they lose the joy
and the vitality of life.
And sometimes they
lose their memories.
They lose their capacity to
even do simple, basic things--
parts of living.
I don't think that's
always necessary.
I think we can, if we
take care of ourselves
and we take care of our bodies,
our bodies will take care of us.
And if we choose wisely,
how we eat, and what we do,
and how we think, and
how we relate to life,
life will respond
differently to us.